.TH vps.conf 5 "12 Sep 2006" "OpenVZ" "Virtual Environments"
.SH NAME
vps.conf \- configuration file for a Virtual Environment.
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/vz/conf/XXX.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a configuration file for a VE. It is stored as
\fB/etc/vz/conf/\fR\fIveid\fB.conf\fR, where \fIveid\fR
is the ID of the given VE.
.PP
Configuration file consists of lines in the form
.PP
\fBPARAMETER\fR="\fIvalue\fR"
.PP
All parameter names and values are case-sensitive. Quotes surrounding a
\fIvalue\fR are required if value contains spaces, and are optional otherwise.
Extra spaces are not allowed. All unrecognized lines will be ignored.
.PP
Please note that the file is created/modified by the \fBvzctl(8)\fR command with the \fIset --save\fR arguments, therefore changes to this file made otherwise than by \fBvzctl(8)\fR can be lost during the next \fBvzctl\fR run.
.PP
The meaning of each parameter is described in \fBvzctl(8)\fR, so here only
the appropriate \fBvzctl set\fR option is given.
.SS Miscellaneous parameters
.IP \fBNAME\fR="\fIvename\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--name\fR option.
.IP \fBONBOOT\fR="\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Specifies whether this VE will be started during system bootup.
Default is \fBno\fR, meaning VE will not be started
if \fBONBOOT\fR parameter is omitted.
Corresponds to the \fB--onboot\fR option.
.IP \fBOSTEMPLATE\fR="\fItmpl_name\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--ostemplate\fR option.
.IP \fBVE_ROOT\fR="\fIdirectory\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--root\fR option.
.IP \fBVE_PRIVATE\fR="\fIdirectory\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--private\fR option.
.IP \fBDISABLED\fR="\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--disabled\fR option.
.IP \fBORIGIN_SAMPLE\fR="\fIname\fR"
Name of VE sample config which the VE is based on.
.IP \fBCONFIG_CUSTOMIZED\fR="\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Set to \fByes\fR if the VE config was modified.
.SS Resource management parameters
.IP \fBNUMPROC\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numproc\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMFILE\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numfile\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMFLOCK\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numflock\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMPTY\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numpty\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMSIGINFO\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numsiginfo\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMTCPSOCK\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numtcpsock\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMOTHERSOCK\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numothersock\fR options.
.IP \fBPRIVVMPAGES\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--privvmpages\fR options.
.IP \fBVMMGUARPAGES\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--vmguarpages\fR options.
.IP \fBOOMGUARPAGES\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--oomguarpages\fR options.
.IP \fBLOCKEDPAGES\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--lockedpages\fR options.
.IP \fBSHMPAGES\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--shmpages\fR options.
.IP \fBKMEMSIZE\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--kmemsize\fR options.
.IP \fBTCPSNDBUF\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--tcpsndbuf\fR options.
.IP \fBTCPRCVBUF\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--tcprcvbuf\fR options.
.IP \fBOTHERSOCKBUF\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--othersockbuf\fR options.
.IP \fBDGRAMRCVBUF\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--dgramrcvbuf\fR options.
.IP \fBDCACHESIZE\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--dcachesize\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMIPTENT\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numiptent\fR options.
.IP \fBCPUUNITS\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--cpuunits\fR option.
.IP \fBDISKSPACE\fR="\fIsoftlimit\fR[:\fIhardlimit\fR]"
Corresponds to the \fB--diskspace\fR parameter.
.IP \fBDISKINODES\fR="\fIsoftlimit\fR[:\fIhardlimit\fR]"
Corresponds to the \fB--diskinodes\fR parameter.
.IP \fBQUOTATIME\fR="\fIseconds\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--quotatime\fR parameter.
.IP \fBQUOTAUGIDLIMIT\fR="\fInum\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--quotaugidlimit\fR parameter.
.IP \fBNOATIME\fR="\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--noatime\fR option.
.IP \fBCAPABILITY\fR="\fIcapname\fR:\fBon\fR|\fBoff\fR\ [...]"
Corresponds to the \fB--capability\fR option
.SS Network related parameters
.IP \fBIP_ADDRESS\fR="\fIaddress\ [address]\fR"
Specifies the \fIaddress\fR the VE will be assigned. Several addresses
are divided by spaces.
Corresponds to the \fB--ipadd\fR option.
.IP \fBHOSTNAME\fR="\fIname\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--hostname\fR option.
.IP \fBNAMESERVER\fR="\fIip\fR\ [\fIip\fR]"
Corresponds to the \fB--nameserver\fR option. Several name server addresses
are divided by spaces.
.IP \fBSEARCHDOMAIN\fR="\fIdomain\fR\ [\fIdomain\fR]"
Corresponds to the \fB--searchdomain\fR option. Several search domains
are divided by spaces.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vzctl (8),
.BR vz.conf (5).
.SH LICENSE
Copyright (C) 2001-2006 by SWsoft. Licensed under GNU GPL.
