.TH vz 5 "10 Aug 2005" "OpenVZ" "Virtual Private Server"
.SH NAME
vz \- global OpenVZ configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/sysconfig/vz
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is global configuration file for OpenVZ.
It consists of lines in the form
.PP
\fBPARAMETER\fR="\fIvalue\fR"
.PP
All parameter names and values are case-sensitive.
Quotes surrounding \fIvalue\fR are required if value contains spaces, and
are optional otherwise. Extra spaces are not allowed. All unrecognized lines
will be ignored.
.SS Global parameters
.IP \fBVIRTUOZZO\fR=\fIyes\fR|\fIno\fR
This parameter can be set to \fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR, and used by
\f(CW/etc/init.d/vz\fR script. In case it is \fBnot\fR
set to \fIyes\fR, nothing will be done to boot up OpenVZ on this node.
.IP "\fBLOCKDIR\fR=\fIdirectory\fR"
Set the directory to put lock files to.
.IP \fBVE0CPUUNITS\fR=\fInumber\fR
Value of this parameter sets \fBcpuunits\fR for VPS0.
.IP "\fBLOGGING\fR=\fIyes\fR|\fIno\fR"
Enables or disables logging. This parameter can be set to \fIyes\fR or
\fIno\fR, default is \fIyes\fR.
.IP \fBLOGFILE\fR=\fIfile\fR
Set location of log file, default is \f(CR/var/log/vzctl.log\fR.
.IP "\fBLOG_LEVEL\fR=\fInumber\fR"
Set the logging level. The more \fInumber\fR is, the more information will be
displayed.
.SS Disk quota parameters
.IP \fBDISK_QUOTA\fR=\fIyes\fR|\fIno\fR
In case the value of this parameter is set to \fIno\fR, all disk
quota operations are disabled.
.IP \fBVZFASTBOOT\fR=\fIyes\fR|\fIno\fR
This parameter is used by \f(CR/etc/init.d/vz start\fR script. In case the value
of this parameter is set to \fIyes\fR, VPS with incorrectly shutdown quota state
started without quota check and after all VPSs started marked VPSs restarted.
.SS Network interface parameters
.IP \fBVE_ROUTE_SRC_DEV\fR="\fIdevice\fR"
This parameter specifies the network device name which ip address will used for
source ip. If on HN configured > 1 network interfaces and needed to specify
the source ip address, set corresponding \fIdevice\fR. By default takes the
first in network device list.
.IP \fBTEMPLATE\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Value of this parameter is a directory in which all VPS template data are
stored.
.SS Defaults for VPS
Below parameters are defaults for VPS, and gets overwritten by parameters in
\fBvps.conf\fR(5) VPS configuration file.
.IP \fBVE_ROOT\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Value of this parameter is the \fIdirectory\fR which serves as VPS root
mount point. Value must contain string \fI$VPSID\fR, it gets substituted
with actual numeric VPS id.
.IP \fBVE_PRIVATE\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Value of this parameter is the \fIdirectory\fR in which all the
files and directories specific to that VPS are stored. Value must contain
string \fI$VPSID\fR, it gets substituted with actual numeric VPS id.
.IP \fBCONFIGFILE\fR=\fIname\fR
Specified default configuration file on create action, corresponds to --config
option 
.PP
Any other parameter that appears in per-VPS configuration file \fBvps.conf\fR(5)
can be also set here. Still, it is recommended to keep \fBTEMPLATE\fR,
\fBVE_PRIVATE\fR and \fBVE_ROOT\fR in this configuration files, and all the
other VPS-related parameters in per-VPS configuration files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vzctl (8),
.BR vps.conf (5).
.SH LICENSE
Copyright (C) 2000-2005, SWsoft. Licensed under QPL.
