.TH vzlist 8 "26 May 2010" "OpenVZ" "Containers"
.SH NAME
vzlist \- containers listing utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
vzlist [\fB-a\fR|\fB-S\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-H\fR] \
[\fB-o\fR \fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR...]] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-\fR]\fIname\fR] \
[\fB-h\fR \fIpattern\fR] [\fB-N\fR \fIpattern\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIpattern\fR] \
[\fICTID\fR [\fICTID\fR ...] | \fB-1\fR]
.PP
vzlist \fB-L\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility is used for listing containers and their parameters.
By default only running containers are listed.
If one or more \fICTID\fRs are specified, only specified containers are
displayed. CTID of \fB-1\fR is used to output CT IDs only, one per line.
.PP
For the fields that can have many values (e.g. \fBip\fR),
all the values are displayed only for the last (i.e. leftmost) column;
otherwise, only the first value is shown.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-a\fR, \fB--all\fR"
List all containers.
.IP "\fB-S\fR, \fB--stopped\fR"
List only stopped containers.
.IP "\fB-n\fR, \fB--name\fR"
Display container names instead of hostnames.
.IP "\fB-H\fR, \fB--no-header\fR"
Suppress displaying the header row.
.IP "\fB-o\fR, \fB--output\fR \fIfield\fR[,\fIfield\fR...]"
Display only the specified \fIfield\fRs (see \fBSTANDARD FIELDS\fR
subsection below).
.IP "\fB-s\fR, \fB--sort\fR [\fB-\fR]\fIfield\fR"
Sort by the value of \fIfield\fR (possible arguments are the same
as for \fB-o\fR). The \fB-\fR before the field name means sorting
in the reverse order.
.SS Output filters
List of CTs can be further filtered using the following options.
For patterns one can use the same wildcards as in shell
(i.e. \fB*\fR, \fB?\fR, and \fB[]\fR).
Note: to avoid expansion of wildcards by the shell, one have to escape
the pattern by either putting it into single quotes (like \fB'a*a'\fR)
or by adding a backslash before the wildcard character (like \fBa\\*a\fR).
.IP "\fB-h\fR, \fB--hostname\fR \fIpattern\fR"
List only containers whose hostnames matches the \fIpattern\fR.
.IP "\fB-N\fR, \fB--name_filter\fR \fIpattern\fR"
List only containers whose names matches the \fIpattern\fR.
.IP "\fB-d\fR, \fB--description\fR \fIpattern\fR"
List only containers with descriptions matching the \fIpattern\fR.
.SS Possible fields
.IP "\fB-L\fR, \fB--list\fR"
list all available format specifiers.
.SS STANDARD FIELDS
These may be used to control both output (\fB-o\fR, \fB--output\fR)
and the sorting order (\fB-s\fR, \fB--sort\fR).
.TS
allbox center;
lB lB
lI l.
Suffix	Description
_
 .m	maxheld
 .b	barrier
 .l	limit
 .f	failcnt
 .s	softlimit
 .h	hardlimit
.TE
.TS
allbox center;
lB lB
lI l.
Value	Header
_
ctid	CTID
hostname	HOSTNAME
name	NAME
description	DESCRIPTION
ostemplate	OSTEMPLATE
ip	IP_ADDR
status	STATUS
kmemsize	KMEMSIZE
kmemsize.m	KMEMSIZE.M
kmemsize.b	KMEMSIZE.B
kmemsize.l	KMEMSIZE.L
kmemsize.f	KMEMSIZE.F
lockedpages	LOCKEDP
lockedpages.m	LOCKEDP.M
lockedpages.b	LOCKEDP.B
lockedpages.l	LOCKEDP.L
lockedpages.f	LOCKEDP.F
privvmpages	PRIVVMP
privvmpages.m	PRIVVMP.M
privvmpages.b	PRIVVMP.B
privvmpages.l	PRIVVMP.L
privvmpages.f	PRIVVMP.F
shmpages	SHMP
shmpages.m	SHMP.M
shmpages.b	SHMP.B
shmpages.l	SHMP.L
shmpages.f	SHMP.F
numproc	NPROC
numproc.m	NPROC.M
numproc.b	NPROC.B
numproc.l	NPROC.L
numproc.f	NPROC.F
physpages	PHYSP
physpages.m	PHYSP.M
physpages.b	PHYSP.B
physpages.l	PHYSP.L
physpages.f	PHYSP.F
vmguarpages	VMGUARP
vmguarpages.m	VMGUARP.M
vmguarpages.b	VMGUARP.B
vmguarpages.l	VMGUARP.L
vmguarpages.f	VMGUARP.F
oomguarpages	OOMGUARP
oomguarpages.m	OOMGUARP.M
oomguarpages.b	OOMGUARP.B
oomguarpages.l	OOMGUARP.L
oomguarpages.f	OOMGUARP.F
numtcpsock	NTCPSOCK
numtcpsock.m	NTCPSOCK.M
numtcpsock.b	NTCPSOCK.B
numtcpsock.l	NTCPSOCK.L
numtcpsock.f	NTCPSOCK.F
numflock	NFLOCK
numflock.m	NFLOCK.M
numflock.b	NFLOCK.B
numflock.l	NFLOCK.L
numflock.f	NFLOCK.F
numpty	NPTY
numpty.m	NPTY.M
numpty.b	NPTY.B
numpty.l	NPTY.L
numpty.f	NPTY.F
numsiginfo	NSIGINFO
numsiginfo.m	NSIGINFO.M
numsiginfo.b	NSIGINFO.B
numsiginfo.l	NSIGINFO.L
numsiginfo.f	NSIGINFO.F
tcpsndbuf	TCPSNDB
tcpsndbuf.m	TCPSNDB.M
tcpsndbuf.b	TCPSNDB.B
tcpsndbuf.l	TCPSNDB.L
tcpsndbuf.f	TCPSNDB.F
tcprcvbuf	TCPRCVB
tcprcvbuf.m	TCPRCVB.M
tcprcvbuf.b	TCPRCVB.B
tcprcvbuf.l	TCPRCVB.L
tcprcvbuf.f	TCPRCVB.F
othersockbuf	OTHSOCKB
othersockbuf.m	OTHSOCKB.M
othersockbuf.b	OTHSOCKB.B
othersockbuf.l	OTHSOCKB.L
othersockbuf.f	OTHSOCKB.F
dgramrcvbuf	DGRAMRRB
dgramrcvbuf.m	DGRAMRRB.M
dgramrcvbuf.b	DGRAMRRB.B
dgramrcvbuf.l	DGRAMRRB.L
dgramrcvbuf.f	DGRAMRRB.F
numothersock	NOTHSOCK
numothersock.m	NOTHSOCK.M
numothersock.b	NOTHSOCK.B
numothersock.l	NOTHSOCK.L
numothersock.f	NOTHSOCK.F
dcachesize	DCACHESZ
dcachesize.m	DCACHESZ.M
dcachesize.b	DCACHESZ.B
dcachesize.l	DCACHESZ.L
dcachesize.f	DCACHESZ.F
numfile	NFILE
numfile.m	NFILE.M
numfile.b	NFILE.B
numfile.l	NFILE.L
numfile.f	NFILE.F
numiptent	NIPTENT
numiptent.m	NIPTENT.M
numiptent.b	NIPTENT.B
numiptent.l	NIPTENT.L
numiptent.f	NIPTENT.F
swappages	SWAPP
swappages.m	SWAPP.M
swappages.b	SWAPP.B
swappages.l	SWAPP.L
swappages.f	SWAPP.F
diskspace	DSPACE
diskspace.s	DSPACE.S
diskspace.h	DSPACE.H
diskinodes	DINODES
diskinodes.s	DINODES.S
diskinodes.h	DINODES.H
laverage	LAVERAGE
uptime	UPTIME
cpulimit	CPULIM
cpuunits	CPUUNI
ioprio	IOP
onboot	ONBOOT
bootorder	BOOTORDER
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
\f(CW	vzlist -o ctid,kmemsize,kmemsize.l -s kmemsize\fR
.SH RETURN CODE
Returns 0 upon success.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2000-2010, Parallels, Inc. Licensed under GNU GPL.
