.TH vzmigrate 8 "28 Jun 2011" "OpenVZ" "Containers"

.SH NAME
vzmigrate \- migrate a container between two OpenVZ servers

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY vzmigrate
.OP -r\fR|\fB--remove-area\ \fByes\fR|\fBno
.OP --ssh=\fIssh_options
.OP --rsync=\fIrsync_options
.OP --keep-dst
.OP --online
.OP -v
.I destination_address CTID
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility is used to migrate a container from one (source) Hardware Node (HN)
to another (destination) HN. The utility can migrate either stopped or running
container. For a stopped container, simple CT private area transfer is performed
(\fBrsync\fR(1) is used for file transfer). For running containers,
migration may be offline (default) or online.

This program uses \fBssh\fR as a transport layer. You will need to put ssh
public key to destination node and be able to connect to node without
entering password.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--remove-area\fR \fByes\fR | \fBno\fR
Whether to remove a container area on source HN for the successfully
migrated container. Default is \fByes\fR.

.TP
\fB--ssh=\fIoptions\fR
Additional \fIoptions\fR that will be passed to ssh while establishing
connection to destination HN.

.TP
\fB--rsync=\fIoptions\fR
Additional \fIoptions\fR that will be passed to \fBrsync\fR(8).
You may add options like \fB-z\fR to enable data compression
if you are migrating over a slow link.

.TP
.B --keep-dst
Do not clean synced destination container private area in case of some
error. It makes sense to use this option on big container migration to avoid
syncing container private area again in case some error (on container stop for
example) occurs during first migration attempt.

.TP
.B --online
Perform online (zero-downtime) migration: during the migration the container
hangs for a while and after the migration it continues working as though
nothing has happened.

.TP
.B -v
Verbose mode. Causes \fBvzmigrate\fP to print debugging messages about
its progress.  Multiple \fB-v\fR options increase the verbosity.
The maximum is 3.

.SH EXAMPLES
Migration of CT #101 to \fB192.168.1.130\fR with downtime:
.PP
.EX
   vzmigrate 192.168.1.130 101
.EE

Online migration of CT #102 to \fB192.168.1.130\fR:
.PP
.EX
   vzmigrate --online 192.168.1.130 102
.EE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0 EXIT_OK
Command completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1 EXIT_USAGE
Bad command line options.
.TP
.B 2 EXIT_VE_STOPPED
Container is stopped.
.TP
.B 4 EXIT_CONNECT
Can't connect to destination (source) HN.
.TP
.B 6 EXIT_COPY
Container private area copying/moving failed.
.TP
.B 7 EXIT_VE_START
Can't start or restore destination CT.
.TP
.B 8 EXIT_VE_STOP
Can't stop or checkpoint source CT.
.TP
.B 9 EXIT_EXISTS
Container already exists on destination HN.
.TP
.B 10 EXIT_NOTEXIST
Container does not exists on source HN.
.TP
.B 12 EXIT_IP_INUSE
You attempt to migrate CT which IP address(es) are already in use
on the destination node.
.TP
.B 13 EXIT_QUOTA
Operation with CT quota failed.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rsync (1).

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2001-2010, Parallels, Inc. Licensed under GNU GPL.
