.\" $Id: vzsplit.8,v 1.3.10.6 2005/10/17 11:42:42 igor Exp $
.TH vzsplit 8 "20 Aug 2002" "OpenVZ" "Virtual Private Servers"
.SH NAME
vzsplit \- generate a sample VPS configuration file with a certain set of system resource control parameters.
.SH SYNOPSIS
vzsplit [\fB-n\fR \fInumve\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIconf_name\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIswapsize\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBvzsplit\fR utility is used to split the Hardware Node into equal parts. It generates a full set of system resource control parameters for the given number of Virtual Private Servers. The values are calculated from the total physical memory of the Hardware Node the utility runs on and the number of Virtual Private Servers the Hardware Node shall be able to run even if the given number of Virtual Private Servers consume all resources available.
Without any option \fBvzsplit\fR prompts for the desired number of Virtual Private Servers and outputs the resulting resource control parameters to the screen.
If there is not enough system resources to run the specified number of
VPSs, an appropriate message is shown and the sample configuration file is not generated.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-n\fR \fInumve\fR
Specify the number of VPSs.
.TP
\fB-f\fR \fIconf_name\fR
Specify the configuration file name. The program output is placed to
/etc/sysconfig/vz-scripts/ve-\fIconf_name\fR.conf-sample.
.TP
\fB-s\fR \fIswapsize\fR
Specify the swap size in Kbytes. If not provided in the option, the swap size will be read from /proc/meminfo.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBvzsplit\fR returns 0 upon a sucessful execution. If anything goes wrong, it
returns 1.	
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vps.conf (5).
.SH LICENSE
Copyright (C) 2000-2005, SWsoft. Licensed under QPL.

