.TH vzctl 8 "25 May 2011" "OpenVZ" "Containers"
.SH NAME
vzubc \- show User Beancounters in a human-readable format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
vzubc [\fIoption\fR ...] [\fICTID\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility aims to show current values for User Beancounter in
a human-readable format. Values that are in pages are converted into bytes,
then long values are converted into kilo-, mega- gigabytes etc.
For held and maxheld, it shows how close the values are to the barrier and
to the limit. Zero and unlimited values are shown as \fB-\fR.

One or several \fICTID\fRs can be specified to limit the output to the given
containers. Each \fICTID\fR can be either a name or a numeric ID. Note that
names can only be used if there is a container on the system with that name
(\fBvzlist -o ctid\fI name\fR command is used for name to ID conversion).
Unknown CTIDs are ignored.

The utility can also be used from inside the container, in this case it only
shows the values for that container (and it doesn't make sense to specify
\fBCTID\fR).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -w , \ --watch
Watch mode: run itself under \fBwatch\fR(1), redisplaying the output
every 2 seconds (by default) until interrupted by Ctrl-C.
.TP
.B -wd
Make \fBwatch\fR highlight the differences between current and previous
output (corresponds to \fBwatch -d\fR option).
.TP
.BI -wn \ time
Refresh interval for \fBwatch\fR(8), in seconds (corresponds to \fBwatch -n \fItime\fR).
.TP
.BR -q , \ --quiet
Quiet mode. In this mode, \fBvzubc\fR only shows beancounters with fails and
those with held/maxheld values close to limits.
.TP
.BI -qh \ ratio
Quiet threshold for held to limit ratio. Default is \fB0.5\fR (50%).
.TP
.BI -qm \ ratio
Quiet threshold for maxheld to limit ratio. Default is \fB0.8\fR (80%).
.TP
.BR -r , \ --relative
Relative mode: for fail counters, instead of showing the absolute value,
calculate the difference from the previous run. This mode is denoted by
a \fB+\fR sign before the \fBFAIL\fR column header.
.TP
.BI -rd \ dir
Set a directory for saving fail counters to \fIdir\fR (default is
\fB/tmp/vzubc.store\fR).
.TP
.B -rc
Clear all saved fail counter data.
.TP
.BR -i , \ --incremental
Incremental mode. Shows an additional column with a difference in held
value from the previous run. This option also affects quiet mode: all
lines with changed held values are shown. Held data is saved to the same
directory as fail counter data.
.TP
.BI -id \ dir
A synonym for \fB-rd\fR.
.TP
.B -ic
Clear all saved held data.
.TP
.BR -c , \ --color
Enable color highlighting. Not compatible with \fB--watch\fR. Same thresholds
as for quiet mode are used to highlight "more important" lines, plus the
lines with non-zero fail counters are highlighted.
.TP
\fB-f\fR | \fB--file\fR \fIfilename\fR
Read User Beancounters from \fIfilename\fR. By default this is
\fB/proc/bc/resources\fR or, if that one is not available,
\fB/proc/user_beancounters\fR. Use \fB-\fR to read from standard input.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBvzubc 101 web dns\fR
Show all beancounters for CTID 101 and for CTs named \fBweb\fR and \fRdns\fR.
.TP
\fBvzubc -w -wd -wn 10 101\fR
Display beancounters for CT 101 every 10 seconds, highlighting the changes.
Interrupt with Control-C.
.TP
\fBvzubc -q -c\fR
Show beancounters with held or maxheld close to limits, plus those with
non-zero fail counters, with colors.
.TP
\fBvzubc -q -qh 0.8 -qm 1\fR
Show beancounters with held value equal to or more than 80% of a limit,
and/or with maxheld value equal or more than a limit, plus those with
non-zero fail counters.
.TP
\fBvzubc -w -q -r\fR
Display beancounters with held and maxheld close to limits, plus those with
increasing fail counters.
.TP
\fBvzubc -r -q -qh 2 -qm 2\fR
Only show beancounters with increased (since the last run) fail counters.
.TP
\fBvzubc -rc -ic\fR
Show all beancounters, and clear all saved data for relative and incremental
mode (i.e. saved values for fail counter and held).
.SH FILES
.ad l
\fB\f(CR/proc/bc/resources
.br
/proc/user_beancounters
.br
/tmp/vzubc.store/ubc.*\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR watch (1),
.BR vzlist (8),
.BR vzmemcheck (8),
.BR vzcfgvalidate (8),
.BR http://wiki.openvz.org/UBC .
.SH LICENSE
Copyright (C) 2011, Parallels, Inc. Licensed under GNU GPL.
